Who can use the NHS App?
To use the NHS App or log in through the NHS website you must be:

aged 13 or over
registered with an NHS GP surgery in England or the Isle of Man
Aged 13 to 15 years old
You’ll need to contact your GP surgery and request access to GP online services before you can use the NHS App.

Cannot set up an account
If you’re registered at a GP surgery outside of England or the Isle of Man. Contact your surgery to find out which online health services you can use.

You’re a member of the armed forces, or are a veteran, service leaver or non-mobilised reservist. If you’re registered at a surgery provided by Defence Medical Services (DMS), you cannot currently use the NHS App.

You can find out more about the health services available to you as a serving member of the armed forces, or as a veteran, service leaver and non-mobilised reservist.

More in Get started with the NHS App
Who can use the NHS App?
Setting up your NHS login
How to log in to the NHS App
Proving who you are to get full access to the NHS App
Page last reviewed: 28 March 2024
Next review due: 25 October 2025


Set up NHS login
What is NHS login?
Where you can use NHS login
What you need to set up an NHS login
How to set up an NHS login
What is NHS login?
NHS login allows you to access lots of different health and care websites and apps with just one set of login details. You can securely access many digital health and care services with one email address and password.

Where you can use NHS login
There are lots of health and care websites and apps that allow you to use NHS login. These include NHS services, online pharmacies, patient access services, and online consultation services.

List of websites and apps you can access with NHS login

What you need to set up an NHS login
To set up an NHS login you will need:

an email address (with more than 6 characters)
a mobile phone or a landline number
To be able to use some services, you will also need to provide your:

NHS number or your full name
date of birth
postcode
To access your health records or any personal information you will also need to provide high level proof of who you are. If your mobile phone number matches the one you have registered with your GP, we will use it to verify your identity. Otherwise, you will need to provide proof of identity.

This can be a:

passport
UK driving licence (full or provisional)
Biometric Residence Permit (BRP)
UK Residence Card, or EEA Biometric Residence Card (BRC) (including temporary pass)
European driving licence (full)
European national identity card
If you cannot provide a valid photo ID, you can use your registration details from your GP surgery.

These are:

a Linkage Key (also known as Passphrase)
an ODS Code (also known as Organisation Code or Surgery ID)
an Account ID
You need to ask your GP surgery for these details.

How to set up an NHS login
You must access a health and care website or app before you can set up an NHS login. Many of them will show the NHS login button.

You will need to:

Enter your email address.
Create a password.
Enter the security code we email to you.
For added security, you will need to set up Two-step verification by:

Providing a mobile phone or landline number.
Entering the 6 digit security code we send to this number.
To access some websites and apps, you may need to provide additional information and prove who you are. This is so we can connect you to your NHS record and protect your health information.

More information on how to prove who you are
Proving who you are to get full access to the NHS App
If you have not proven who you are, you'll see a message after you log in to the NHS App or through the NHS website. It will ask you to prove your identity to get full access.

If you do not see this message, you already have full access.

Your GP surgery chooses the level of detail available for you to see in your health record. They may also choose to switch off features, like appointment booking, if they need to.

How to prove who you are
You can prove who you are using photo ID or your registration details for your GP surgery's online services.

Use photo ID to prove who you are

What to do if you do not have photo ID

Information:
NHS login registrations may take longer than usual when there are high numbers of requests. Registrations will be processed as soon as possible.

What you can do with your NHS App
Using the NHS App or the NHS website, you'll need to prove who you are before you can:

book and manage appointments
order repeat prescriptions
view your health record securely
manage your organ donation decision
view your NHS number
use NHS 111 online
Without full access you can:

search conditions and treatments
find NHS services near you
More in Get started with the NHS App
Who can use the NHS App?
Setting up your NHS login
How to log in to the NHS App
Proving who you are to get full access to the NHS App
Page last reviewed: 28 March 2024
Next review due: 25 October 2025